Continuing along the road up into the mountains, the adventurers and Gundren reach the mining town of Nashkel. Gundren leads the adventurers to the town’s one inn. Inside, they meet Gundren’s older brothers, Tharden and Nundro. Gundren reveals the map, which appears unlike any map either our adventurers or their dwarven patrons have ever seen. Tharden and Nundro are immediately skeptical and grill Gundren as to the provenance of the map. Gundren reveals he obtained it from a halfling in Baldur’s Gate named Vinnie. Tharden and Nundro are decidedly displeased, as Vinnie has a record of fooling Gundren into purchasing worthless or dangerous objects for various schemes. Tharden tosses the map to Esmerelda and the two older brothers drag Gundren out of the inn and, abandoning their scheme, head back toward the coast road.
Esmerelda recognizes the map as a sigil sequence to a teleportation circle, but immediately is troubled by the ninth of eleven runes. Whereas every sigil sequence she has ever studied have the same ninth, tenth, and eleventh sigils, this sequence has a different ninth rune. Unable to discern anything additional about the sigils, the group retires to bed.
Esmerelda is awoken with a start in the middle of the night, and seeing a shadow departing the room, notices that her pack has been rifled through and the map is missing. The group darts into the hallway finding a group of grey-robed assailants absconding with the map. A fight ensues, and joining the fray on the side of our adventurers is a dwarven paladin also staying in the same room at the inn. Although our heroes are unable to prevent the thieves from siezing the map, they track their assailants to the back door of a nearby storefront. The paladin reveals his name: Deige [last name] and appears to know something about the map. Our four adventurers are deeply skeptical of Deige, but as both they and Deige are desirous to pursue the thieves, it appears they are allies, at least for the moment.
Our heroes pursue the map down a staircase that reveals an large, hastily-constructed underground laboratory. Esmerelda identifies potions brewing as some modification of healing potions, but their precise nature is unclear. The adventurers sneak through the laboratory, narrowly avoiding an acid trap, successfully fending off animated skeletons that appeared to be soaked in the potions found in the lab, finally arriving in a large open cavern. At one end of the cavern is a patched-together Klarg-like creature growing in a tank. A failed stealth mission across the cavern leads to another fight, and in the fray the clumsy barbarian knocks over a table of potions, provoking a reaction and explosion.
The cavern cleared out and thoroughly charred, the heroes press on, finding a wooden door where they can hear an oddly-accented voice narrating his actions. They burst in and find a grey-skinned elf wizard, map in hand, opening a teleportation circle. The elf reacts, erecting a defensive magical wall around himself and explaining to the adventurers in pompous fashion that he styles himself The Black Spider and that he is among the most famous wizards in the known world. The group has never heard of him and launches an attack to sieze the map before The Black Spider can open the teleportation circle. The Black Spider shouts for something called “Patchwork” to take care of the intruders. Patchwork, a ten-foot tall creature made from pieces of ogre and troll, bursts through the wall and runs toward our heroes. With our heroes distracted, The Black Spider completes the sigil sequence and begins opening the teleportation circle. Noda quickly figures out Patchwork’s limited tactical understanding and uses his mass to smash both the defensive magic wall and The Black Spider himself. Badly injured, The Black Spider informs our heroes that this is not the last they have heard of him and abandons the teleportation circule. He pulls out a wand to open a dimensional gate and disapears to places unknown.
The fight over, the group decides to see what is beyond the teleportation circle. They pass through and find themselves in a beautifully-carved chamber with what appears to be a shimmering, irridescent giant golden scarab, perhaps 30 feet long, sitting  on a dias. Esmerelda and Deige both immediately agree on who needs to know about this: the archmage Zohar at the university at the Candlekeep monestary, the same university Esmerelda studied at and the same monestary employing Deige to track the map.
Our adventurers pass back through the portal and depart to Candlekeep, a four-day journey back toward Baldur’s Gate. Duff, uncomfortable with Candlekeep’s adherence to the rigid orthodoxy of The Silver Flame, remains outside. Zohar consults with her cleric companion Astra then uses the sigil sequence on the map to open a teleportation circle to the scarab chamber our heroes discovered. Zohar immediately returns, pale and visibly shaken, and remarks to our adventurers that what they found should not still exist.